The phrase “The early bird catches the worm” may be true.
It means people who wake up early get more done than people who don’t.
Another saying is from former U.S. President Benjamin Franklin.
He said, “Early to bed, early to rise makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.”
Scientists have found that people who go to bed before 11 p.m. may do better in life than people who sleep around 2:30 a.m.
The researchers are from Birmingham’s Centre for Human Brain Health in the U.K.
Their research showed that people who slept and rose early had an advantage over people who slept and woke up late.
The early sleepers are often called early birds, while late sleepers are known as night owls.
There were differences in brain function between early birds and night owls.
The scientists tested 38 people in their research.
The people answered questionnaires about their sleeping patterns and when they felt tired during the day.
They were then placed into either an early bird group or a night owl group based on their answers.
All of the people had MRI scans of their brains and completed different tests throughout the day.
The early birds said they felt less sleepy and were able to complete the tests more quickly than the night owls.
The researchers said there were big differences between the two groups.
They explained that night owls often have to wake up earlier for school and work.
This means they are constantly fighting against their natural preferences and body rhythms.